core: create rook resources with k8s recommended labels (#8678)
rook/rook: Documentation/recommended-labels.md

---

> title: Recommended Labels

Reviewer: This doc feels more like a design doc than something that needs to be in the user documentation. User docs are really focused around what is needed for configuration and troubleshooting. This doc feels more like a description of this feature that was implemented, which is more the purpose of design docs. How about if we move this to be a design doc (under `/design/ceph/`) instead of under `/Documentation? If users want to know what labels are available, they can just inspect them at runtime.

weight: 2250
indent: true
---

# Recommended Labels

Recommended Labels are a common set of labels that allows tools to work interoperably, describing objects in a common manner that all tools can understand.

## Labels

`app.kubernetes.io/name`: Is the name of the binary running in a container.

> `app.kubernetes.io/instance`: A unique name identifying the instance of an application, it is the combination of daemonType and daemonID.

Reviewer 2: Let's add a note that this is unique per namespace but not per k8s cluster.

```suggestion
`app.kubernetes.io/instance`: A unique name identifying the instance of an application. Due to the nature of how resources are named in Rook, this is guaranteed to be unique per CephCluster namespace but not unique within the entire Kubernetes cluster.
```

> `app.kubernetes.io/component`: It is populated as resource kind,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`app.kubernetes.io/component`: This is populated with the Kind of the resource controlling this application. For example, `cephclusters.ceph.rook.io` or `cephfilesystems.ceph.rook.io`.
```

for example: If `cephclusters` is the resource Kind so the targeted component will be `cephclusters.ceph.rook.io`. 

> `app.kubernetes.io/part-of`: It is the name of the resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`app.kubernetes.io/part-of`: This is populated with the Name of the resource controlling this application. For example, `my-cluster` or `my-filesystem`.
```

`app.kubernetes.io/managed-by`: `rook-ceph-operator` is the tool being used to manage the operation of an application

`app.kubernetes.io/created-by`: `rook-ceph-operator` is the controller/user who created this resource

`rook.io/operator-namespace`: The namespace in which rook-ceph operator is running.

An Example of Recommended Labels on Ceph mon with ID=a will look like:
```
	app.kubernetes.io/name       : "ceph-mon"
	app.kubernetes.io/instance   : "mon-a"
	app.kubernetes.io/component  : "cephclusters"

> 	app.kubernetes.io/part-of    : "rook-ceph-mon-a"

Author: I am updating `part-of` label to its resourceName only, 
For example for `nfs` I am passing [`resourceName` ](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/54d532b623610677df66351e18a50ced00b027f8/pkg/operator/ceph/nfs/spec.go#L94-L97)

> 	app.kubernetes.io/part-of    : "rook-ceph-mon-a"

Author: Or did you mean anything else?

> 	app.kubernetes.io/part-of    : "rook-ceph-mon-a"

Reviewer 2: That is the resource name of the deployment. It should be the resource name of the CephNFS.

> 	app.kubernetes.io/part-of    : "rook-ceph-mon-a"

Reviewer: @parth-gr When we're setting the labels on a resource, we should have the CR in memory already and no need to look it up from the API server. So if we are in the main cluster reconcile loop, we should have the name of the cluster CR. If we're in the object reconciler, we should have the current object store CR name, etc.

> 	app.kubernetes.io/part-of    : "rook-ceph-mon-a"

Author: Actually, the CR name is disabled [here](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/480c7f89f223215dc108c0e6712ffd70bc2b30ed/pkg/daemon/ceph/client/info.go#L47) , so set the `rook-operator` where I can't access it.

	app.kubernetes.io/managed-by : "rook-ceph-operator"
	app.kubernetes.io/created-by : "rook-ceph-operator"
	rook.io/operator-namespace   : "rook-ceph"

> ```

Reviewer 2: Can add a note to help users tie together component, part-of, and instance.
```suggestion
```

A totally unique string for an application can be built up from (a) `app.kubernetes.io/component`, (b) `app.kubernetes.io/part-of`, (c) the resource's namespace, (d) `app.kubernetes.io/name`, and (e) `app.kubernetes.io/instance` fields. For the example above, we could join those fields with underscore connectors like this: `cephclusters.ceph.rook.io_rook-ceph_my-cluster_ceph-mon_a`. Note that this full spec can easily exceed the 64-character limit imposed on Kubernetes labels.
```
